---
layout: post
title: What is Business Computing?
published: false
---

Let's be honest. In the short time that I've been a user of Apple's products, I have always been enthusiastic and excited about impending announcements. I was one of the few people who saw those fake videos of the iWalk and got all excited that a successor to the Newton was eminent. In fact, my excitement about portable computing in particular runs deep and further back than my use of Macs. There was a period in the 90s when I was avidly reading everything I could about what was going on in the worlds of Windows CE and the Palm Pilot. My family can probably recount for you how annoying I was about it. I would talk about small portable computers over lunch and dinner. When we went out, I would want to stop by CompUSA or Best Buy or Office Max, just to play around on devices like the LG Phenom, the HP Jornada 820, or the Psion Series 5mx and Revo.

These devices were not meant for a kid like me. (Or probably any kid.) The potent general idea from my point of view at the time was that these were devices which offered a subset of the functionality of a full-blown desktop, but simplified to the point where they were actually possible to use. This was not long after I had switched from browsing inside AOL to connecting over dialup through AOL, minimizing it, and browsing with either Netscape or IE. I was learning a valuable lesson about feature creep: extra features often come at the cost of usability. The Palm OS, Windows CE, and Symbian OS all boiled down to the same main choices about what users needed and what they could do without. "Productivity" apps like email and calendar were in, other things like games were out. Not a lot of fun for a 14-year-old.

But I wasn't really all that interested in games. What I cared about, honestly, was writing. When my parents bought me an iMac in 1998 for the first time, the first best thing that I noticed about it was how much easier I found it to write on. To be honest, I couldn't tell you why very specifically. I was too young and writing is an odd experience that is hard to understand any way you do it. I can still remember what the experience felt like, however. It felt as though the computer had really just melted away, and all I was left with was the keyboard and a canvas, uninhibited and unencumbered. It was great, and some of my fondest memories of writing took place in front of that lime green iMac.

When I went to the stores to try out the Phenom or the Jornada or the Psion, I was trying out what it would feel like to write on the thing. I cared about the keyboard, I cared about navigating the file system, I cared about how my words looked on the screen... hoping that the confluence of the OS, keyboard, and screen would create something that felt _right_ to me. I didn't need a calendar, contacts, or even email. I certainly didn't need PowerPoint or Excel, although I was fascinated that they were able to get something similar to those things working. I wanted something that I could take with me to start writing when the mood would strike.[1]

Every time new products came out, or were speculated upon, that might fit what I wanted -- a portable writing device -- I was excited. I was excited when laptops with full keyboards got smaller and lighter. I was excited when the Visor was doing well and when they Handspring team rejoined Palm. I was excited about the Psion Series 7 and about the creation of subnotebooks. I was excited about the idea of "thin clients," computers with more limited built-in power that off-loaded most of the work to a remote server over an internet connection.[2] Anything that was making computers smaller and lighter, and anything that was making the activity of typing more portable, I watched with baited breath. When Apple introduced Inkwell to Mac OS X, I thought that surely a foray into the tablet format was in the works, with the intention of giving users a pen-based interface and pen-based text entry.

But I simply can't get too worked up about the idea that Apple is about to announce some sort of tablet-style device, possibly with a new approach to the interaction model for that form factor. I think that it's because I am still falling in love with my iPod Touch. My iPod is now my portable writing device. I wrote the first draft of my last post in Simplenote while flying from San Francisco to Los Angeles. In fact, I read the essay I was responding to on the same flight in Instapaper. After getting used to the auto-correction, writing on my iPod feels right to me in that way that I have been looking for. And it is portable beyond what I thought possible for a digital writing tool. I can carry it in my pocket with me everywhere at all times. I never thought that typing with two thumbs on a screen with no tactile feedback on a device that sits comfortably in the palm could feel like writing. But it does. A need that I've had unfulfilled for ten years has been met. I will of course be excited to see what's going on with this new tablet-like thing, and even more so if there is a compelling case to be made for it as a tool for reading and writing. But I'm not very worked up.

Which brings me to "this pre-review":http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/187223/apple_tablet_wont_mean_business.html of a not-announced, not-released, hypothetical Apple product by Bill Snyder at ??PC World?? who starts off with this disclaimer:

bq. Attention Apple fan-boys and -girls: Read no further. But if you run a small business and want to avoid wasting money and brain cells on superfluous technology, forget about the iSlate or whatever Apple is going to call its tablet computing device. It's going to be too expensive, it does things you don't need to do, and it will add a messy layer of complication to your company's computing infrastructure.

OK, so this is probably link- and troll-bait.[3] But I think there's an indication here of something that intrigues me. The contention of this article is that like Apple's current line-up, whatever new thing they announce won't fit into a business setting.

The idea that someone thinks this way today kind of boggles my mind. My brushes with businesses are frankly very limited, but my impression by far has been that computers are still treated like strange magic boxes in which voodoo takes place.[4] What tasks are primarily carried out on a computer in a business setting? As far as I know, the main two uses are identical to everyone's primary use of computers these days: web and email. Beyond that, I assume that there are many businesses that use computers in the way Snyder seems to be thinking, which is primarily for structured data entry.

This has always struck me as a hilarious problem. Computer data entry and storage has been a major use for computing in business for as long as I can remember. Just think of all the times you've encountered some sort of institution where you had to sit with someone entering text in some kind of DOS-based text entry application. These usually strike me as custom applications built for the institution, that probably use some crazy and messy way to store that information. Stuff like this of more recent vintage are more like web apps that run on an intranet. These, I think are usually what people are referring to when they say that their company can get rid of IE6 because of some company software that requires it.

If these are the kinds of businesses and business applications that Snyder is referring to as being incompatible with Apple products, then I think the problem is with these companies who are relying on crappy software to keep their businesses running. And if your IT department can't keep your network secure 

<hr class="footnote" />

fn1. My family can also tell you about my habitual purchase of paper notebooks that would never become filled.

fn2. That one sounds familiar, doesn't it?

fn3. The first sentence might as well read "Attention Apple fan-boys and -girls: Read only the keywords and then please leave a comment and link to this from your blog or Twitter."

fn4. This is not to mention what many businesses seem to think about the web.