---
layout: post
title: Zoom Out
---

In "??How to Stop Worrying and Learn to Love the Internet??":http://www.douglasadams.com/dna/19990901-00-a.html, Douglas Adams writes:

bq. [One] problem with the net is that it's still 'technology', and 'technology', as the computer scientist Bran Ferren memorably defined it, is 'stuff that doesn't work yet.' We no longer think of chairs as technology, we just think of them as chairs. But there was a time when we hadn't worked out how many legs chairs should have, how tall they should be, and they would often 'crash' when we tried to use them. Before long, computers will be as trivial and plentiful as chairs (and a couple of decades or so after that, as sheets of paper or grains of sand) and we will cease to be aware of the things. In fact I'm sure we will look back on this last decade and wonder how we could ever have mistaken what we were doing with them for 'productivity.'

Adams has an incredibly zoomed-out perspective, very different from the perspective most of us take day to day. This is probably why he wrote about the world as a farce: from so far out, everything turns into a cosmic joke. This makes the famous engraving on Adams' Hitchhiker's Guide, _Don't Panic_, make all the more sense.

There is a reverse side to this, however. Zoomed out, we miss out on all the details of life as it is, and cosmic humor can reveal its cynical side. The current oil spill is evidence of this: on the whole, the amount of damage caused is reasonably un-funny. If we take too broad a view, we are left with: These things happen, best not to cry over spilt oil. And yet, if we take too narrow a view, we get exactly the kind of headlines that still sell newspapers.