---
layout: post
title: _"Bad"_ Television
---

For a number of years now, I've been a regular viewer of some undoubtedly consider pretty terrible TV shows. I think it may have started when I got hooked on ??Brothers & Sisters??, but the list has now grown to include shows like ??Cupid??, ??Greek??, and ??Cougar Town??. I honestly have no idea if any of these shows could ever qualify for anything akin to critical acclaim or even popular recognition. (??Brothers & Sisters?? is fairly popular... right?) But I _have_ watched just about every episode of these shows to date. So of course I have an opinion about them.

The first thing to say is that when I first got into ??Brothers & Sisters?? - after a marathon viewing of the first season in Carlisle, PA - I told people only tentatively that I watched the show. And when I did, I described it as my "guilty pleasure." Why? Well, for one thing, I like people to think that I'm generally self-respecting, and I imagined that most people I was in regular contact with (read Sarah Lawrence students) would think that no self-respecting person could possibly be interested in such a show.

The real question, though, is why did I imagine that to be the case? What is so _bad_ about ??Brothers & Sisters??? My first thought was essentially that it seemed to be an evening soap. Okay, people don't like soaps, but what did that mean? That the show is somehow especially melodramatic and that all the story-lines involve lots of twists intended to jerk the audience around?