---
layout: post
title: Roundup No. 3
published: false
---

h4. The Liberal Arts

One of my favorite writers, Louis Menand, has a new book out this year that I've started digging into called "??The Marketplace of Ideas??":http://books.wwnorton.com/books/detail.aspx?ID=6082. It would be unfair to summarize his intentions with the text, so here are his words describing the questions he attempts to answer:

bq. Why is it so hard to institute a general education curriculum? Why did the humanities disciplines undergo a crisis of legitimization? Why has "interdisciplinarity" become a magic word? And why do professors all tend to have the same politics?

His thoughts on general education are interesting, but I find myself wishing that he had commented on Sarah Lawrence's strategy where this is concerned. He talks about Harvard and Columbia, which both have different histories with regards to core curricula and distribution requirements. Columbia's core, with its focus on "great books" is the model on which St. John's College's is based. When I tell people that I went to Sarah Lawrence, I often hear quick comparisons to other schools such as Reed, Hampshire, Bennington, Bard. The most surprising comparison to me is to St. John's. Even on a superficial level, the schools are very different: at St. John's, everyone takes the same classes throughout, there are no electives. Sarah Lawrence, by contrast, is all electives.

In fact, Sarah Lawrence as a model exists almost entirely outside of what Menand describes as general education for liberal arts students. Menand gives two options: the core model and the distribution model. 