---
layout: post
title: Type Implementation in Browsers
published: false
---

This is some information about the kind of stuff we need going forward.

As a quick aside before getting into this list, I should point out that I think for the most part the issue of web fonts is a bit of a distraction from a lot of other problems that are less sexy because they're (intentionally) less visible to most users.

Here are the real things that would be helpful immediately:

We need a good dictionary system to work in conjunction with web browsers to feed them hyphenation information for different languages and implementation across the board of a standard CSS rule for giving the browser instructions for how to hyphenate. This also needs to be really fast.

----

We need simple CSS rules for giving instructions about widows and their handling. We also need to be better able to give an indication regarding orphaned lines in print media. Both of these should be handled in a reasonable way by the defaults for the browser.

Automatic detection of ligatures and CSS rules for OTF features such as lining, text, and tabular figures; stylistic alternates; discretionary ligatures; true small caps; etc.

There should be a way to specify whether text is vertically centered within the line-height as it is now, or instead attached to the baseline as expected by most print designers. For now, the default should be left. This is less critical than the above.

Along with the things mentioned, we also really need at least one solid typeface to work with. That's what is so encouraging about the work currently being done to refresh the ubiquitous Georgia typeface. I can only hope that the family will be free to download and easy to install, or possibly that it might be bundled with the browsers in some kind of update or something. Without a free typeface installed on a vast majority of machines, in order to take advantage of open-type features we would need a consistent and stable way to embed such a font (even for a fee) into websites.

Either way we need at least one rock-solid typeface with support for internationalization and al of the open-type features in order to avoid a separation between websites that can afford a budget for fonts and those that cannot.