---
layout: post
title: A Report from the Future
published: true
---

Well I'm sitting here at LAX at a Samsung Mobile Charging Station, so I thought it was as good a time as any to start reflecting on the decade up until this point.[1] So far, I've used my Visa to cover magazines and Sudafed from a Hudson News, which didn't carry Coke, so I bought a soft drink with my Visa from Burger King where using a card was advertised as being "faster than cash" and I had to work a bit to figure out how to get both ice and Coke out of the machine that we are told is a fountain but bears little resemblance to my eyes.

Brand and commercial pollution are nothing new, but I hold out hope that these things are subsiding. The whole idea of large corporate entities just seems flawed in this world. It has served us well in the way of making goods so convenient that people are open to focusing time and energy on more specific things. TK But in many ways, commercialism and new technology have paved the way for a less-informed society that is treated to an incessant barrage of advertisements and other entreatises to spend money. That's what our current system more or less depends on. This is one of the reasons it is harder for me to venture out in the world. Malls and movie theatres and even airports are so full of things that, simply put, overwhelm and confound, that it's just not worth going on a regular basis.

<hr class="footnote" />

fn1. If you're like me, you probably aren't sure whether to consider the upcoming New Year the start of a New Decade. For all the hooha that circulated around the turn of the millenium, including the arguments over whether the start should be considered January 1st, 2000 or 2001 - I decided to celebrate both anyway - it turned out that for all intents and purposes this decade didn't start until late 2001 anyway. And this is how it has always been. From what I can remember, the 80s lingered well into the early 90s, at least if we are to believe the record Hollywood and MTV have left us.