---
layout: post
title: Youth in Revolt
---

I read C. D. Payne's book ??Youth in Revolt?? at probably the perfect point in puberty for a young man learning to navigate himself and the world around him. The narrator Nick Twisp's larger-than-life adventures were exactly of the sort that my own imagination took me on: desire for sex morphed into the imagined emotions of love and the actions of a more confident young man in defiance of the horrible trappings of life in the mundane; yearning for an imagined life beyond and unsure how to acheive it.

It is no coincidence that I made my first stab at dating not long after reading this book, with a girl in my French class. At a time in my life when I needed a strong imaginary role model to inspire me to carry through on taking important steps in my very real life, Nick Twisp provided himself and his own imagined insitigator, Francois.

It was with these memories at hand that I saw the trailer for the movie based on the book a few months ago. My own youthful recollections - the good and the sting - were evoked only superficially during the trailer, and my memory of the long and detailed nature of the story shaped my gut reaction into disgust. Here was yet another attempt to turn profit at the cinema from a book best left alone. Given the nature of the character as I remembered, and the stance toward society he presented, it struck me as a sell-out.

However, a few weeks ago on a rainy Sunday afternoon in L.A., as I was looking for something to go out and do, I decided to open my mind and give this new Nick Twisp a chance.

And I am glad that I did.

I think this is a breakthrough performance for Michael Cera. He has played similar characters since his splash in ??Arrested Development??. ??Youth?? reveals a range in comedy that I hope to see more of from Cera in future projects. The conceit of the story, that Nick Twisp invents a bad boy alter ego named Francois Dillinger, works to Cera's advantage. He plays Nick in the same straight way that he has performed so many roles, and gets to break the mold with Francois. I've seen the movie twice now, and I have to say that Cera's Francois is a screen magnet. His line delivery throughout is excellent, but there is a quality to Francois's physical presence and overall attitude that perfectly captures the way a quietly intelligent young person might imagine themselves as "cool."

Despite being an hour and a half version of a 500-page book, the movie feels tight without feeling like it's moving too fast to try to cram everything in. As it has been a number of years since I read ??Youth in Revolt??, I can't say precisely what was cut or pared down to make this shorter version of the story work on screen, but my sense coming away from the film is that its own story is complete and nothing that stood out much to me from my memory of the book seems to be missing.[1]

Everyone in the cast does a great job; all acheive some wonderfully memorable little moments. My favorite performance apart from Cera's is TK, who plays Twisp's fast friend and co-pilot Vijay. When he suddenly adopts a false South Indian accent as part of a ploy to get a ride home, it is a small revelation.

<hr class="footnote" />

fn1. This may actually speak to a good way to approach film adaptations of longer books in general: read the book closely once, let it go long enough that the details become hazy, and sit down to draw up an outline of the story from memory. The ??Harry Potter?? movies so far could have benefited from a more judicious cutting process like this.