---
layout: post
title: Addiction
published: false
---

The most difficult of Plato's dialogues that I have ever tried to get through is the ??Philebus??, which is about pleasure and pain and, like all of Plato's writing, good. I spent a fairly awful semester at Sarah Lawrence reading the ??Philebus??. It was awful for a lot of reasons. A friend from high school, one of my closest friends, had decided to start at Sarah Lawrence that year. She didn't like it and by the end of her first year decided it would be her only year. Her roommate, who I also spent a great deal of time with during the ??Philebus?? semester, left the school by the end of the fall term and transferred to a state school. I happened to be friends with their RA, a fellow sophomore, who transferred in the spring as well.

During my first year at the college, I had already spent the better part of two semesters dealing with bipolar depression. It is polite to describe these episodes in an abstract way: the first semester, having been put on an anti-depressant by a physician in Austin, I flew into a month-long manic period. I was quickly taken off the anti-depressant, and the whole situation left me feeling skittish, so despite the advice of doctors I stayed off medication for the spring and summer. I had a prodigious spring semester running a theater ensemble that gave weekly performances. At the beginning of the term, my grandmother passed away after years of fighting off Alzheimer's and I also spent the entire semester greiving.

Coupled with a mood disorder, I spent my entire first year attempting to move on from the relationship I had left behind in Austin. My high school friend who joined me at Sarah Lawrence the next year served partly as a painful constant reminder of a loss that had grown cartoonish in my heart, expanded and empowered by (as best I could tell) a combination of disorder and youthful angst.

These cycles of depression continued during the ??Philebus?? semester, in some ways more powerfully and potently than during the year before. 